---
image: ../images/love-thy-neighbor-poster.png
title: Philosophy
---

### It starts with vision. ###

Picture a world of cooperation and loving-kindness... a place where we are able
to achieve our highest potential. Seriously: close your eyes, pause for just 3
breaths, and imagine that world.

Now that you've seen it in your mind: do you believe we can get there?

If so, you're already working on it, so let's recognize and celebrate that!
Everyone already gives what that can to their favorite people or causes. We
honor every bit that is given freely. Whereas many people interact by carefully
guarding their time and money with measurements and trade, let's give
unconditionally to people in that future world.

### The plan is straightforward. ###

First, keep that future in mind. We'll only get there if it's in our sights.

* That cannot be emphasized enough! It's easy to lose sight of our ideals as we
  deal with everyday needs and with the people immediately around us. Part of
  our work is focused on the focus, keeping our highest goals in our sights. You
  might call it a spiritual creation since it's only in our minds... today.

Now we invest our extra time and energy and money by giving them away, freely,
until that dominates money.

* Life's grandest rewards come from gifts without conditions, and without any
  expectation of return. We emphasize those rewards... and we aim to replace
  today's today's scarcity mindsets with systems that encourage even more
  giving, starving out extractive institutions. Let's build a gifting economy.

### How? ###

We start now, wherever we are in life and in the world.

In terms of action:

* Raise awareness of what is already being given: expand the "want" questions
  above to get started.

* One goal is to supply someone's basic needs entirely with gifts, so if you're
  interested in the mechanics of that long-term project then reach out to us.

* Find what will give you the most satisfaction: we suggest below some places to
  reach out even further if you are still looking for that project that excites
  you. (Plus, future app features will help advertise projects and interests.)

### Is it even possible? ###

This isn't merely philosophy or fun ideas: communities have lived this way
before, and simple bad social leadership has pushed us into a world where we
live with high levels of indebtedness and uncertainty. We will refocus. We will
practice this wherever we live, whether in the most cooperative community or in
the staunchest totalitarian or capitalist societies... in any situation, we will
increase joy in the world and invest in our future. Hearts are the only way to
change the world permanently; no outside-in or system-oriented approach can.

There is a future where we humans live such that our struggles are for
achievement, self-mastery, and love... there are no more fear-based reactions,
there is no more violence, even in the face of natural catastrophes. This is one
ingredient to attaining that future. This is an essential part of any religious
or political or economic approach that leads to a fulfilling life and
enlightened society. And it works well with all the other great initiatives
pushing along this path.

So...

What are the gifts you're offering?

Let's celebrate & expand them!
